Blog: New Release Opt-in process (#334)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2022/enhancements-process-update.md

> # Release Opt-in Process Update

Reviewer: This needs additional metadata formatting and authors. [See here for an example.](https://github.com/kubernetes/contributor-site/blob/master/content/en/blog/2022/2022-05-25-contextual-logging.md)

Reviewer: Alternative title suggestion - `Enhancement Opt-in Process Change for v1.26`

## Context and Motivations
Since the inception of the Kubernetes release team, we have used a spreadsheet to keep track of enhancements for the release. The project has scaled massively in the past few years, with almost a hundred enhancements collected for the 1.24 release. This process has become error-prone and time consuming. A lot of manual work is required from the release team and the SIG leads to populate KEPs data in the sheet. We have received continuous feedback from our contributors to streamline the process.

> Starting in the 1.26 release, we are replacing the sheet with an automated Github project.

Reviewer: For clarity, I would suggest `Starting at the beginning of the 1.26 release ....` or `Starting with the 1.26 release ....`

> ## How does the Github Board work?

Reviewer: I belive the right name is "Github Project Board"

> The board is populated with a script gathering all KEP issues in the `kubernestes/enhancements` repo that have the tag `lead-oped-in`. The enhancements' stage and SIG information will also be automatically pulled from the KEP issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The board is populated with a script gathering all KEP issues in the `kubernestes/enhancements` repo that have the tag `lead-opted-in`. The enhancements' stage and SIG information will also be automatically pulled from the KEP issue.
```

> ## What this means for the community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does this mean for the community?
```

> If you are not a SIG lead, not much will change beside the view of the enhancements collections and the change of platform. KEP authors will continue working with their respective SIG leads to opt-in to the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not a SIG lead, not much will change beside the view of the enhancements collections and the change of platform. KEP authors will continue working with their respective SIG leads to opt in to the release.
```

> For SIG leads, opting in is simple. The KEP issue will be the single source of truth so ensure that all metadata are up to date. Simply apply the label`lead-opt-in` to be included in the release. Since the script runs periodically, kindly come back to check that the KEP is on the board and that there is an enhancements team member assigned to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For SIG leads, opting in is simple. The KEP issue will be the single source of truth so ensure that all metadata are up to date. Simply comment `/label lead-opted-in` on the enhancement tracking issue to opt to include it in the release. Since the script runs periodically, kindly come back to check that the KEP is on the board and that there is an enhancements team member assigned to it.
```

> For SIG leads, opting in is simple. The KEP issue will be the single source of truth so ensure that all metadata are up to date. Simply apply the label`lead-opt-in` to be included in the release. Since the script runs periodically, kindly come back to check that the KEP is on the board and that there is an enhancements team member assigned to it.

Reviewer: Might be worth restating here that SIG leads do not need to add enhancements to the Google sheet, and the label by itself is sufficient as the opt-in.

> We are excited to bring this highly requested feature into our release process and appreciate your patience. Please find us on Slack at #release-enhancemets if you have any feedback, questions or concern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are excited to bring this highly requested feature into our release process and appreciate your patience. Please find us on Slack at #release-enhancements if you have any feedback, questions or concern.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Enhancements Opt-in Process Change for v1.26"

> date: 2022-09-03

Reviewer 3: Should we set this to Tuesday? 

```suggestion
date: 2022-09-06
```

slug: enhancements-opt-in
---

# Enhancements Opt-in Process Change for v1.26 

## Context and Motivations

> Since the inception of the Kubernetes release team, we have used a spreadsheet to keep track of enhancements for the release. The project has scaled massively in the past few years, with almost a hundred enhancements collected for the 1.24 release. This process has become error-prone and time consuming. A lot of manual work is required from the release team and the SIG leads to populate KEPs data in the sheet. We have received continuous feedback from our contributors to streamline the process.

Reviewer: nit: newline for consistency with other sections
```suggestion

Since the inception of the Kubernetes release team, we have used a spreadsheet to keep track of enhancements for the release. The project has scaled massively in the past few years, with almost a hundred enhancements collected for the 1.24 release. This process has become error-prone and time consuming. A lot of manual work is required from the release team and the SIG leads to populate KEPs data in the sheet. We have received continuous feedback from our contributors to streamline the process.
```

> Starting at the beginning of the 1.26 release, we are replacing the sheet with an automated Github project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting at the beginning of the 1.26 release, we are replacing the sheet with an automated GitHub project board.
```

## How does the Github Project Board work?

The board is populated with a script gathering all KEP issues in the `kubernetes/enhancements` repo that have the tag `lead-opted-in`. The enhancements' stage and SIG information will also be automatically pulled from the KEP issue.

> 

Reviewer: Extra newline.

## What does this mean for the community?

> If you are not a SIG lead, not much will change beside the view of the enhancements collections and the change of platform. KEP authors will continue working with their respective SIG leads to opt in to the release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are not a SIG lead, nothing will change beside the view of the enhancements collections and the change of platform. KEP authors will continue working with their respective SIG leads to opt in to the release.
```

> If you are not a SIG lead, nothing will change beside the view of the enhancements collections and the change of platform. KEP authors will continue working with their respective SIG leads to opt in to the release.

Reviewer: This is okay as is but might be slightly clearer with `... platform change to the Github board.`

For SIG leads, opting in is simple. The KEP issue will be the single source of truth so ensure that all metadata are up to date. Simply comment `/label lead-opted-in` on the enhancement tracking issue to opt it into the current release. That's all you need to do to opt in! Since the script runs periodically, kindly come back to check that the KEP is on the board and that there is an enhancements team member assigned to it.

> We are excited to bring this highly requested feature into our release process and appreciate your patience. Email us at [release-enhancements-team@kubernetes.io](mailto:release-enhancements-team@kubernetes.io) or  find us on Slack at [#release-enhancements](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C02BY55KV7E) if you have any feedback, questions or concern.

Reviewer: extra space.

```suggestion
We are excited to bring this highly requested feature into our release process and appreciate your patience. Email us at [release-enhancements-team@kubernetes.io](mailto:release-enhancements-team@kubernetes.io) or find us on Slack at [#release-enhancements](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C02BY55KV7E) if you have any feedback, questions or concern.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Enhancements Opt-in Process Change for v1.26"

> date: 2022-09-06

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
date: 2022-09-09
```

slug: enhancements-opt-in
---

**Author:** Grace Nguyen

## Context and Motivations

Since the inception of the Kubernetes release team, we have used a spreadsheet to keep track of enhancements for the release. The project has scaled massively in the past few years, with almost a hundred enhancements collected for the 1.24 release. This process has become error-prone and time consuming. A lot of manual work is required from the release team and the SIG leads to populate KEPs data in the sheet. We have received continuous feedback from our contributors to streamline the process.

> Starting at the beginning of the 1.26 release, we are replacing the sheet with an automated [GitHub project board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/98).

Reviewer 4: non-blocking nit
```suggestion
Starting with the 1.26 release, we are replacing the enhancements tracking spreadsheet with an automated [GitHub project board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/98).
```

## How does the Github Project Board work?

> The board is populated with a script gathering all KEP issues in the `kubernetes/enhancements` repo that have the tag `lead-opted-in`. The enhancements' stage and SIG information will also be automatically pulled from the KEP issue.

Reviewer 4: non-blocking nit
```suggestion
The board is populated with a script gathering all KEP issues in the `kubernetes/enhancements` repo that have the label `lead-opted-in`. The enhancements' stage and SIG information will also be automatically pulled from the KEP issue.
```

After the KEP is populated on the Github Project Board, the Enhancements team will manually update the KEP with the label `tracked/yes`, `tracked/no` and on occasions, `tracked/out-of-tree`. The `tracked` label signifies qualification for the closest approaching milestone. For example, at the beginning of the release, `tracked/yes` means that the KEP has satisfied all Enhancements Freeze requirements and similarly for Code Freeze, `tracked/yes` means that all code related to the KEP has been merged. The `tracked` label is reserved for the Enhancements team use only.

## What does this mean for the community?

If you are not a SIG lead, nothing will change beside the view of the enhancements collections and the change of platform. KEP authors will continue working with their respective SIG leads to opt in to the release.

> For SIG leads, opting in is simple. The KEP issue will be the single source of truth so ensure that all metadata are up to date. Simply comment `/label lead-opted-in` on the enhancement tracking issue to opt it into the current release. That's all you need to do to opt in! Since the script runs periodically, kindly come back to check that the KEP is on the board, labelled with `tracked/yes`, and that there is an Enhancements team member assigned to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For SIG leads, opting in is simple. The KEP issue will be the single source of truth so ensure that all metadata is up to date. Simply comment `/label lead-opted-in` on the enhancement tracking issue to opt it into the current release. That's all you need to do to opt in! Since the script runs periodically, kindly come back to check that the KEP is on the board, labeled with `tracked/yes`, and that there is an Enhancements team member assigned to it.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Enhancements Opt-in Process Change for v1.26"
date: 2022-09-06
slug: enhancements-opt-in
author: Grace Nguyen
---

# Enhancements Opt-in Process Change for v1.26 

## Context and Motivations

Since the inception of the Kubernetes release team, we have used a spreadsheet to keep track of enhancements for the release. The project has scaled massively in the past few years, with almost a hundred enhancements collected for the 1.24 release. This process has become error-prone and time consuming. A lot of manual work is required from the release team and the SIG leads to populate KEPs data in the sheet. We have received continuous feedback from our contributors to streamline the process.

Starting at the beginning of the 1.26 release, we are replacing the sheet with an automated [GitHub project board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/98).

## How does the Github Project Board work?

The board is populated with a script gathering all KEP issues in the `kubernetes/enhancements` repo that have the tag `lead-opted-in`. The enhancements' stage and SIG information will also be automatically pulled from the KEP issue.

> After the KEP is populated on the Github Project Board, the Enhancements team will manually update the KEP with the label `tracked/yes`, `tracked/no` and on occasions, `tracked/out-of-tree`. The `tracked` label signify qualification to the closest milestone. For example, at the beginning of enhancements collections, `tracked/yes` means that the KEP is verified to have opted in by the Enhancements team. Closer to Enhancements Freeze, `tracked/yes` means that the KEP has satisfied all Enhancements Freeze requirements and similarly for Code Freeze, `tracked/yes` means that all code related to the KEP have been merged. The `tracked` label is reserved for the Enhancements team use only.

Reviewer: Is there still a need for the first use case (verified to have opted in by the Enhancements team) since we now have the `lead-opted-in` label?

Reviewer: For `tracked/out-of-tree`, I would omit mentioning it unless we explain how it's used.

Author: oof `tracked/out-of-tree` is a beast of its own kind and requires documentation else where so I'll just omit it for now. Regarding the first use case of the `tracked` label: I'm not too sure since this is our first run, the details mentioned here is the case for previous releases.

Would you like to use the `tracked` label for Enhancements Freeze qualifiers right away? I think it makes sense

> After the KEP is populated on the Github Project Board, the Enhancements team will manually update the KEP with the label `tracked/yes`, `tracked/no` and on occasions, `tracked/out-of-tree`. The `tracked` label signify qualification to the closest milestone. For example, at the beginning of enhancements collections, `tracked/yes` means that the KEP is verified to have opted in by the Enhancements team. Closer to Enhancements Freeze, `tracked/yes` means that the KEP has satisfied all Enhancements Freeze requirements and similarly for Code Freeze, `tracked/yes` means that all code related to the KEP have been merged. The `tracked` label is reserved for the Enhancements team use only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the KEP is populated on the Github Project Board, the Enhancements team will manually update the KEP with the label `tracked/yes`, `tracked/no` and on occasions, `tracked/out-of-tree`. The `tracked` label signifies qualification for the closest approaching milestone. For example, at the beginning of enhancements collections, `tracked/yes` means that the KEP is verified to have opted in by the Enhancements team. Closer to Enhancements Freeze, `tracked/yes` means that the KEP has satisfied all Enhancements Freeze requirements and similarly for Code Freeze, `tracked/yes` means that all code related to the KEP has been merged. The `tracked` label is reserved for the Enhancements team use only.
```
